hi everyone I'm David and I work for
protocol apps I'm a software engineer
responsible and focused on the JSI PFS
and the way peer-to-peer projects
throughout this amazing conference we
have been seeing a lot of technologies
and solutions to build decentralized
applications pushing the boundaries to a
complete distributed scenarios however
something that hasn't been covered as
much is the networking level it is
required to do a lot of magic
I might even dare to say black magic to
be able to do these peer-to-peer
applications work in the infrastructure
that we have today
things like Nats firewalls lack of
cognitive 'ti completely offline
scenarios sensor networks are some of
the problems that we peer-to-peer
software developers have to overcome in
order to build these decentralized
applications and it is not by chance
that like both ipfs and it Helium have
built fully matured networking stacks
from the ground up to solve these
challenges we peer-to-peer for the case
of ipfs and DEF peer-to-peer for it here
IAM and this is simply because there was
no transport in your network that
offered the primitives that ipfs and it
even needed things like authentication
and encryption being able to cope with
several network topologies in several
different scenarios are some of the
challenges that we must overcome and
like face when we are building these
systems however there is a key small key
difference between the designs of these
networking stacks we peer-to-peer is
modular this modularity gives us the
ability to increase our reach in terms
of devices by using the capabilities
that the system has to offer
every single module in we peer-to-peer
exposes a well-defined interface for
peer discovery for routing for
transports three multiplexing encryption
you name it and we can pick the
components that we want and bake our
early peer-to-peer solution for the
device that we want to run this
modularity gives us the opportunity to
keep
our primitives for authenticated process
addressing intact it is a very powerful
construct to be able to address any
other process in the network just by a
public key so that we can find the
process in the network and not only dial
to it but also make sure that we are
talking with the right endpoint so this
means that like we can go from the
traditional physical network to a super
connected graph with a physical and
virtual over on physical and virtual
overlay that is not bound by the
capabilities of the system we can use
things like butta to create some of
these channels even radio or audio can
be transports we can upgrade unreliable
channels to become reliable with
reliability upgrades we can encrypt any
channel that we want with sekai l TLS
curve DP and others and this means that
we can also enter in the ecosystems that
don't have the full networking stacks
that we are typically used to huge cases
for this is for example the browser
which is constrained to just have
WebSockets HTTP and WebRTC or Internet
of Things devices that sometime don't
even have TCP stacks you have you are
you have to rely on some radio protocol
in order to be able to dial out of that
device for example the one very good
example of our reputed peers of
pluggable is that our friends from open
Bazaar needed and wanted to have a tour
transport for their their use and all
they needed to do was to create a tour
transport that fulfill the same
interface as the other transports only
peer-to-peer and they can just plug it
right in and once that is done every
other application that wants to use that
transport can just bring it and you
don't have to change anything from the
codebase of your application the
primitives stay the same it is really
powerful think like having fully team
notes running in every single device
with no limitations so we think and we
see deaf p2p era peer-to-peer being able
to converge and like to join efforts to
make a way
ecosystem for the community that uses
these networks tax their future pier
offers a lot of primitives that can
augment this ecosystem and since we
already did the work as one mentioned
earlier of getting ipfs running on the
browser we kind of like went ahead and
asked ourselves what would we have to do
in order to get any tem node running on
the browser so I'll just show like we
started hacking something it is very in
the beginning a very early stage it's a
humble beginning but we want to show you
the process the progress I have two
demos for you so looking for the demo
one so the first challenge is really
getting the etherium vm working on the
browser here basically you might be
familiar with the standard setup of
getting a browser app nowadays running
on the browser you have to physically
transpile everything and then once it's
transpiled we can load it and we
prepared this really nice fresh world so
you can see what's going on and here we
are going to get like simulate d2 in
blockchain we are going to create some
blocks and we are going to process them
through the etherium vm there is always
like since these operations are very CPU
intensive it takes a little bit to warm
up but once it's there you can just run
it rest check country we get helium VM
on the browser running blocks from the
GM blockchain but there is more so now
I'm opening another tab and I'm
basically connecting to the other peer
that was open before and I'm connecting
these two browser tabs so instead of
generating blocks I'm just going to ask
that peer to give me the box so it
happens seamlessly like I just said dial
to this other peer it found the peer and
fetch the blocks from that network so we
can get the TMV I'm running on the
browser and finding blocks from other
nodes this is pretty exciting but there
is more so you can see I can pop more
nodes and like they find each other very
quickly but now like the real
interesting demo is like can we get
these browser nodes
connecting to the real etherium network
let's see
demos ooh I already played awesome okay
so same dance getting the application to
run but here we are doing something
extra we are going to run a gayageum
notes patch through the peer-to-peer so
it does an address in the way
peer-to-peer
echo system and now instead of like
simulating the blockchain I'm just going
to dial to that girl with helium note
and fetch the blocks like basically I'm
using this game note that was augmented
with the peer-to-peer to connect to the
rest of the network again the generating
the Genesis block dance takes a little
bit
this can be greatly improved especially
with recent work from marketing on Ella
zoom I'm sure but once that's there
we'll start receiving all of these
blocks there you go and you can see like
this is like fetching from the real live
network it's pulling all the blocks in
into the browser
awesome so let me explain in a graph
what and it keeps going it might take a
while if you have downloaded the
blockchain before you know you might
know that can you go back to the slides
okay okay thank you okay
so what is happening so we know we have
the acuity met work that already exists
and pretty well connected to their field
of view and then we added this Goethe
Leonel patched with we peer-to-peer so
that does like a presence on double p2p
Network and then we throw the node.js
snails running loop peer-to-peer as well
and then we have our browser that
connects to this node.js know that
connects to the rest of the network to
the other go Jess node good girl just
node to go it through your note so you
can see we already like using multiple
transports here like I'm using TCP to
connect girl between node and then I'm
using web sockets from nodes to the
browser
next up like I can connect several
browsers together right so what I'm
going to do is just use WebRTC the
peer-to-peer transport of the browser
and I just put it on top what I can do
is I can connect the browser again to
the girl with your note and this way
like any browser that has a common
transport can dial to another nail that
supports we peer-to-peer
this is pretty exciting like this means
like we can have finally it helium in
the browser running like fully three
nodes and it's just a little browser is
basically any device with any network
capabilities the network is not the
problem anymore I would like to give a
huge shout to Martin because Martin
basically did all of the magic of
getting aetherium running on the browser
I just had to plug the wires together
that was easy thank you so much for all
the wealth and like what you've seen
here was basically like a couple of
nights hacking it was actually very
impressive oh it was so easy to attach
we peer to peer to go with helium and to
bring the blocks to the browser and run
them on the TMJ SVM it's pretty exciting
so we will continue pursuit this
endeavor you can follow the development
on the leap UTP organization on gear the
deaf ear to peer development on the
theorem org and you can check all of
those examples all that demo on a repo
called jazz idiom with peer-to-peer I
can post the links after in Twitter if
someone is interested to check it out
that's awesome thank you so much